Next up, let's talk about the second key feature of Spring Boot,
being standalone.
Spring Boot makes it easy to create standalone,
production-grade, Spring-based applications that just run.
Now for someone who isn't intimately familiar with
Java web application development, this may not seem like that big of a deal.
I mean, how hard could it be?
You just double-click the application or you run a single command, right?
Well, not exactly.
That's not how a typical Java web application is run.
To really understand how impactful it is for Spring Boot to be standalone,
let's look at how a typical Java web application is run.
First, you package the application.
You can think of this as zipping up the directory of
files that make up the application.
Then you have to choose a web server for the web application to run on,
and there's several different choices,
and each web server is going to offer many different unique features.
So some offer a lot of features, while others are more bare bones.
And once you've decided what server to use,
you have to download and configure that web server.
And again, depending on the number of features that the web server has,
this configuration step could be extremely involved or relatively simple.
You then deploy your application to the web server.
This usually means copying the application package to a specific directory
or uploading it to the web server via a web browser.
And lastly, you start the web application server,
which in turn starts your web application.
With Spring Boot applications being standalone, they simply just run.
Seriously.
All you have to do is package the application and run it with a single command,
java -jar, and then the name of the package that's your application.
Spring Boot takes care of the rest by starting an embedded web server within
your application and configures it with some sensible defaults, and then begins serving up your application.